Corruption is proxied by Corruption Perception Index (CPI) drawn by Transparency International (TI). CPI is an index used for scoring corruption 
level of a country. TI has calculated CPI for 25 years, based on several sources. CPI will be low if the level of corruption of country is high, 
and if country has low corruption level, CPI will be high. The highest score of CPI is 100, the least is 0. For convenience, this research divided 
the score into 10, so the range of the score is 1 to 10. The data collected from Corruption Perception Index 2018: Global Scores. There are 180 
countries collected data, for period 2012-2018, but only 170 countries studied in this research. And because this study uses only cross-sectional data, 
the CPI score is taken average for period. \
Mo (2001) measures the annual growth rate of a variable approximately by using the compound interest rate formula . The labor force is proxied by 
population growth rate. Population growth rate is estimated by the same way of the annual growth rate. The data of real gross domestic product (GDP) 
and population are collected from World Bank. Human resource is proxied by data of average schooling years of over 25-year-old population from UNESCO. 
However, this is data limitation of this research, because the period is long so schooling years data of many countries are omitted in several years. 
Therefore, this research calculates the average schooling years in period just for years having data.\
This research uses Political Rights Ratings (PR) from Freedom House to proxy political rights. PR is used to rate the level of political rights of a 
country. The data is published in Freedom in the world report 2019. Because it is not much differences between years within a country, so this research 
decides to choose 2017 data for studying. By contrast with the convention of CPI, the rating score of PR is low for country having good political rights 
and high for country having bad political rights or rating 1 for the best and 10 for the worst. Therefore, for conveniently, this research recalculates 
PR as 10 minus the real value, so the indices are now 10 for the best and 1 for the worst. \
The indices proxying for political stability variable is Political Stability and Absence of Violence/Terrorism rank from Worldwide Governance Indicators 
(WGI) project. Political Stability and Absence of Violence/Terrorism measures perceptions of the likelihood of political instability and/or politically 
motivated violence, including terrorism. The indices used in this research is percentile ranking among all countries, ranges from 0 (lowest) to 100 
(highest), as from a country having high political instability to a country having low political instability. And for conveniently studying, this research 
divides the value of rank by 10, so ranges are now from 0 to 10. The data is published in The Worldwide Governance Indicators, 2018 Update. There are 216 
countries, for period 1996-2018, but in this research, only data of 170 countries, for period 2013-2018, is used. 
